### Habits

Habits is a todo list based on habit formation through completion of repeated tasks.

The view is divided into four different scopes, from left to right: daily, monthly, yearly and
project-based tasks. This is intended to give you a quick overview of your goals in both the
short and long term.

Within a scope, each task is represented by a button. Clicking the button will cycle the task
between unset, complete and incomplete status. These statuses are used to calculate long-term
statistics.

Task statistics are calculated based on shared task names across scopes.

For example, say you have a New Years resolution of exercising four times a week. You would first
add an "Exercise" task to the scope for this year; copy it to the current month using the
clipboard button. Then you would copy it from the month on each day you want to exercise.

When you begin marking these daily tasks as complete or incomplete, you will get a percentage of
tasks completed for months and years. For example, if you set out to exercise 14 days in January
and successfully did it 50% of the time, you would see "Exercise 7/14 (50%)" on both the monthly
and yearly summary.

You also get a streak indicator, so if you exercised successfully seven days in a row at the end
of the month, you will see 7/7 meaning that your best streak and current streak are both seven
days. Streaks only break when a task is incomplete, so if your goal is to exercise on
non-consecutive days (say Monday/Wednesday/Friday).

The goal, of course, is to get this completion as close to 100% as possible. The benefit of using
meditations comes in triaging multiple goals by getting a quick visual overview of progress. For
example, if you have five current goals and none of them are doing well, it may be time to focus
on only two or three.

It is also beneficial in tracking things that you are good at doing and simply trying to maintain
and log. For example, say you are happy with how you generally eat, but you end up violating your
rules when eating out with friends or coworkers. In a case like this, you might add a daily task
like "Diet" representing whether or not you eat well, and only become concerned if completion
drops below 80% (meaning you're going off-diet more than one out of every five days).

Not every long-term task involves daily repetition, for which meditations has the concept of
projects, which are displayed on the far right. Active projects should be "pinned"; pinned
projects have a flame indicator next to them which indicates momentum. The flame is calculated by
how many tasks with the project's name have been completed in the last few weeks.

So for example if you create a project "Refurbish bathroom", then daily tasks would be created
with the name "Refurbish bathroom" each time you completed an hour or so of work towards the
project.

Projects can also contain tasks, which can be accessed like the time-based tasks by clicking on a
project name. These do not count towards the flame indicator but can be used to track major
milestones.

The point of all of this is to track these things with as little friction as possible; I have
my browser open meditations on startup, and I leave it open throughout the day. Generally I
simply note things down as I complete them, and at the end of the day I copy from the monthly to
the daily list to plan the next day. I re-assess my daily tasks and progress at the end of each month.

#### Filter and task export

Occasionally one wants to get an overview of what you've been doing towards a particular goal, in
which case the "filter" feature at the top is a handy way to do so. Simply time in the name of
the task, such as "Exercise" and only tasks matching that name will be displayed. You can also
add a date range to this, which can then be combined with the export feature to download a
markdown text file of your tasks and comments. You can use this to e.g. export an exercise log to
show to other people.
